.TH "gyrid" 1
.SH NAME
gyrid \- A mobile device scanner and logger.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/init.d/gyrid
start|stop|restart
.SH DESCRIPTION
Gyrid continuously scans the neighborhood for Bluetooth-enabled devices which are publicly visible, given there is a Bluetooth adapter connected. It can scan with multiple adapters simultaneously too.

The hardware id's of the discovered devices are saved to a logfile including a timestamp and their device class (which is a number that indicates whether the device is a phone, a carkit, etc.). Optionally, the RSSI value of each detection can be saved as well.

When there is a WiFi adapter attached which is not managed by NetworkManager, it is used to monitor the radiospectrum for WiFi activity. All received packets are logged, with respect to the users privacy. Only the 802.11 packet headers are saved, the packet content is not.

The idea behind this is scientifical. When multiple of these scanners are placed at known positions, the logfiles can be combined into a (geo)database and used for further analysis. This can be done in realtime via a network server or in postprocessing.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B start
Start Gyrid.
.TP
.B stop
Stop Gyrid.
.TP
.B restart
Restart Gyrid.
.SH DEBUG
.B /usr/share/gyrid/gyrid-start debug [--no-log]

To start Gyrid in debug mode, use the gyrid-start script. Debug mode does not daemonize the process and can be ended by issuing Ctrl+C on the console.

Debug mode is more verbose, printing all activity to standard output. This might be useful to spot bugs or issues more easily.

With the optional --no-log flag set, no logs are written to disk.
.SH FILES
.TP
/etc/gyrid/gyrid.conf
Configuration file where a few options can be specified. The default configuration file documents all options.
.TP
/etc/gyrid/blacklist.conf
File where blacklisted MAC-addresses can be listed, which will be exluded from registration. One can list either a full address or only the starting part.
In the latter case, all addresses starting with that part will be blacklisted.
.TP
/etc/gyrid/arduino.conf
File where the Arduino-based rotating antenna configuration resides. It is a CSV file with in the first column the MAC-address of the Bluetooth sensor, in the second column the Arduino id (f.ex. arduino001) and in the third column the turning resolution (i.e. in how many parts the 180 degree arc is divided).
.TP
/var/log/gyrid/
This is the directory where all logfiles are stored.
.SH BUGS
Bugs and patches are welcome via e-mail at <roel.huybrechts@ugent.be>
.SH AUTHOR
Roel Huybrechts <roel.huybrechts@ugent.be>, Ghent University
